Kaggle uses cookies from Google to deliver and enhance the quality of its services and to analyze traffic.

OK, Got it.

M Yasser H · Updated 4 years ago

Titanic Survival Prediction Dataset

## Titanic Dataset

## About Dataset

### Description:

The sinking of the Titanic is one of the most infamous shipwrecks in history.

On April 15, 1912, during her maiden voyage, the widely considered “unsinkable” RMS Titanic sank after colliding with an iceberg. Unfortunately, there weren’t enough lifeboats for everyone on board, resulting in the death of 1502 out of 2224 passengers and crew.

While there was some element of luck involved in surviving, it seems some groups of people were more likely to survive than others.

In this challenge, we ask you to build a predictive model that answers the question: “what sorts of people were more likely to survive?” using passenger data (ie name, age, gender, socio-economic class, etc).

### Acknowledgements:

This dataset has been referred from Kaggle: [https://www.kaggle.com/c/titanic/data](https://www.kaggle.com/c/titanic/data).

### Objective:

- Understand the Dataset & cleanup (if required).
- Build a strong classification model to predict whether the passenger survives or not.
- Also fine-tune the hyperparameters & compare the evaluation metrics of various classification algorithms.

## Titanic-Dataset.csv(61.19 kB)

### PassengerId: 

**Type**: key, unique

**Meaning**: Passenger ID
### Survived

**Type**: numeric, boolean

**Meaning**: Survived or not: 0 = No, 1 = Yes
### Pclass

**Type**: numeric, enum

**Meaning**: Ticket class: 1 = 1st, 2 = 2nd, 3 = 3rd
### Name

**Type**: string

**Meaning**: Name of the Passenger
### Sex

**Type**: string

**Meaning**: Gender
### Age

**Type**: numeric

**Meaning**: Age in Years

### SibSp

**Type**: numeric

**Meaning**: No. of siblings / spouses aboard the Titanic
### Parch

**Type**: numeric

**Meaning**: No. of parents / children aboard the Titanic
### Ticket

**Type**: string

**Meaning**: Ticket number
### Fare

**Type**: numeric

**Meaning**: Passenger fare
### Cabin

**Type**: string

**Meaning**: the cabin of the passenger
### Emarked

**Type**: string

**Meaning**: where did the passenger embark the ship. S = Southampton (England), C = Cherbourg (France), Q = Queenstown (Ireland)
